You might think that the importance of statistics in
experiment design lies only in analyzing the results of an experiment.
Set up the design following the principles established in the previous lesson,
collect some data, and then use statistics to analyze the data.
Well, there's actually more importance for statistics in
your experimental design rather than just coming in at the end.
For example, that point about collecting some data seems a bit vague.
How much data will you need before you can judge
your experiment's success on solid grounds?
Do I need a thousand data points, 10,000, or 100,000.
Factors like the size of the effect that you want to see can
have a major effect on how much data you need to collect,
and how long it will take before you get your results.
This lesson will help you see how statistical techniques can
be used to make solid decisions in your experimental designs.
In the first part of this lesson,
you'll learn about how statistical techniques can help you
answer questions related to setting up an experiment.
Then, in the second part of the lesson,
you'll learn about some tricky pitfalls that can come as
a part of enlightened outcomes of an experiment.